.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH WEBPMUX 1 "January 24, 2012"
.SH NAME
webpmux \- command line tool to create WebP Mux/container file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webpmux \-get
.I GET_OPTIONS
.I INPUT
.B \-o
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B webpmux \-set
.I SET_OPTIONS
.I INPUT
.B \-o
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B webpmux \-strip
.I STRIP_OPTIONS
.I INPUT
.B \-o
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B webpmux \-tile
.I TILE_OPTIONS
.B [\-tile...] \-o
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B webpmux \-frame
.I FRAME_OPTIONS
.B [\-frame...] \-loop
.I LOOP_COUNT
.B \-o
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B webpmux \-info
.I INPUT
.br
.B webpmux [\-h|\-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the
.B webpmux
command.
.PP
\fBwebpmux\fP can be used to create a WebP container file
and extract/strip relevant data from the container file.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS GET_OPTIONS (\-get):
.TP
.B icc
Get ICC Color profile.
.TP
.B xmp
Get XMP metadata.
.TP
.B tile n
Get nth tile.
.TP
.B frame n
Get nth frame.

.SS SET_OPTIONS (\-set)
.TP
.B icc
Set ICC Color profile.
.TP
.B xmp
Set XMP metadata.

.SS STRIP_OPTIONS (\-strip)
.TP
.B icc
Strip ICC Color profile.
.TP
.B xmp
Strip XMP metadata.

.SS TILE_OPTIONS (\-tile)
.TP
.B file_i +xi+yi
Where: 'file_i' is the i'th tile (webp format) and 'xi','yi' specify the image
offset for this tile.

.SS FRAME_OPTIONS (\-frame)
.TP
.B file_i +xi+yi+di
Where: 'file_i' is the i'th frame (webp format), 'xi','yi' specify the image
offset for this frame and 'di' is the pause duration before next frame.
.TP
.B \-loop n
Loop the frames n number of times. 0 indicates the frames should loop forever.

.SS INPUT
.TP
Input file in WebP format.

.SS OUTPUT (\-o)
.TP
Output file in WebP format.

.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs to our issue tracker:
http://code.google.com/p/webp/issues
.br
Patches welcome! See this page to get started:
http://www.webmproject.org/code/contribute/submitting-patches/

.SH EXAMPLES
webpmux \-set icc image_profile.icc in.webp \-o icc_container.webp
.br
webpmux \-get icc icc_container.webp \-o image_profile.icc
.br
webpmux \-set xmp image_metadata.xmp in.webp \-o xmp_container.webp
.br
webpmux \-get xmp xmp_container.webp \-o image_metadata.xmp
.br
webpmux \-frame anim_1.webp +0+0+0 \-frame anim_2.webp +50+50+0 \-loop 10
\-o anim_container.webp
.br
webpmux \-get frame 2 anim_container.webp \-o frame_2.webp

.SH AUTHORS
\fBwebpmux\fP is written by the WebP team.
.br
The latest source tree is available at http://www.webmproject.org/code
.PP
This manual page was written by Vikas Arora <vikaas.arora@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dwebp (1),
.BR cwebp (1).
.br
Please refer to http://developers.google.com/speed/webp/ for additional
information.
